buffer description api in neorawio and xarray reference API bridge (#1513)
NeuralEnsemble/python-neo: doc/source/rawio.rst

    In [42]: print(ev_times)
    [ 0.0317]

Signal streams and signal buffers
---------------------------------

> For reading analog signal **rawio** has 2 important concepts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For reading analog signals **neo.rawio** has 2 important concepts:
```

I think we want to say neo rawio here no? The signals needs to be plural either way.

 1. The **signal_stream** : it is a group of channels that can be read together using :func:`get_analog_signal_chunk()`.

>     This group of channels are guaranteed to have the sample sampling rate, and the same duration per segment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This group of channels is guaranteed to have the same sampling rate, and the same duration per segment.
```

>     This group of channels is guaranteed to have the same sampling rate, and the same duration per segment.

Reviewer 2: Now that we have logical channels, this should be same units as well, right?

Author: At the moment not yet. The API do not enforce and ensure this.
See this https://github.com/NeuralEnsemble/python-neo/blob/master/neo/rawio/baserawio.py#L118
Ideally units should be add but some IO are mixing maybe the units in the same stream.

Author: There are some tricky cases where the units is manually done by the user for some formats.
not sure but maybe spike2 is in that case.
What should we do ? split all groups of same units in separate streams ? this could be an good idea but we need first a deeper check.

Reviewer 2: Agree. I think that the concept of stream should include same unit across the stream but this we will need to solve in a case by case basis (the deeper check that you mention).

>     Most of the time, this group channel is a "logical" group of channel. In hsort there are from the same headstage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Most of the time, this group of channel is a "logical" group of channels. In short they are from the same headstage
```

>     or from the auxilary board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    or from the same auxiliary board.
```

>     Optionally, depending the format, a **signal_stream** can be a slice or an entire **signal_buffer**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Optionally, depending on the format, a **signal_stream** can be a slice of or an entire **signal_buffer**.
```

>  2. The **signal_buffer** : it is group channel that share the same data layout in a file. The most simple example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. The **signal_buffer** : it is group of channels that share the same data layout in a file. The most simple example
```

    is channel that can be read by a simple :func:`signals = np.memmap(file, shape=..., dtype=... , offset=...)`.

>     A **signal_buffer** can contain one or several **signal_stream** (very often it is only one).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A **signal_buffer** can contain one or several **signal_stream**'s (very often it is only one).
```

>     There are two kind of format that handle this concept:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    There are two kind of formats that handle this concept:
```

>       * the one that can use :func:`np.memmap()` internally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * those which use :func:`np.memmap()` internally
```

>       * those which use :func:`np.memmap()` internally

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * Formats which use :func:`np.memmap()` internally
```

>       * format based on hdf5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * formats based on hdf5
```

>       * formats based on hdf5

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * Formats based on hdf5
```

>     There are many format that do not handle at all this concept:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    There are many formats that do not handle this concept:
```

>       * the one that use an external python package for reading data (edf, ced, plexon2, ...)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * the ones that use an external python package for reading data (edf, ced, plexon2, ...)
```

>       * the one with a complicated data layout (data block are splited without structure)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * the ones with a complicated data layout (e.g. those where the data blocks are split without structure)
```

>       * the ones with a complicated data layout (e.g. those where the data blocks are split without structure)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * the ones with a complicated data layout (e.g. those where the data blocks are split without structure like Intan's single file format)
```

Reviewer: I would argue that intan is split with structure. Each block is organized the exact same way. But I get the point. I think maybe the "split without structure" is actually the unclear portion of this statement.

Author: Yes when there is a structure we could handle it in the API but I will it later so intan is not teh best example

>     To check if a format have the concept you can check the class attribute flag `has_buffer_description_api` of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To check if a format makes use of the buffer api you can check the class attribute flag `has_buffer_description_api` of the
```

>     rawio class.

Author: @zm711 @h-mayorquin.
Have a look to this, this is a very drafty start of documenting the stream and buffer concept.
